# Chapter 1 Toys

## Defination

`atom`

- a string of characters.
- a string of one character.
- list is not a atom

`list`

- a atoms enclosed by parentheses.
- a collection of atoms enclosed by parentheses.
- one or more S-expressions enclosed by parentheses
- zero S-expresions enclosed by parentheses, which is called the `null` (or empty) list

`S-expression`

- all atoms are S-expressions
- a list is a S-expression

`car`

- the first atom of a list
- the first S-expression of a list
- cannot ask car of a atom, nor a empty list, which list to `nil`
- `The Law of Car`: The premitive car is defined only fro non-empty lists
- car takes any non-empty list as argument

`cdr`

- the list on origin list `l` without (car `l`)
- The Law of Cdr: The premitive cdr is defined only for non-empty lists. The cdr of any non-empty list is always another list
- cdr taks any non-empty list as argument

`cons`

- adds an atom to the front of a list
- adds any S-expression to the front of a list
- cons takes two arguments
  - the first one is any S-expression
  - the second one is any list
- `The Law of Cons`: The primitive cons takes two arguments. The second arguments to cons must be a list. The result is a list.

`null?`

- (quote ()) is a notation for the null list
- null? judge a list
- `The Law of Null`: The primitive null? is defined only for lists

`atom?`

- (atom? s) is another way to ask "Is s is an atom?"

`eq?`

- (eq? a1 a2) is another way to ask, "Arew a1 and a2 the same non-numeric atom?"
- eq? taks two arguments, both of which must be non-numeric atoms
- `The Law of Eq?`: The primitive eq? takes two arguments. Each must be a non-numeric atom
