# Chapter 1. Building abstracitons with Procedures

Computional processes are abstract beings that inhabit computers.

## 1 Programming in Lisp

Lisp, whose name is an acronym for LISt Processing.
The dialect of Lisp used in this book is called Scheme.
Lisp descriptions of processes, called proceudres, can themselves be represented and manipulated as Lisp data. The importance of this is that there are powerful program-design techniques that rely on the ability to blur the traditional distinction between `passive` data and `active` processes.
Above and beyond these considerations, programming in Lisp is great fun.

### 1.1 The Elements of Programming

Every powerful language has three mechanisms for accomplishing the idea: combining simple ideas to form more complex ideas.

- **primitive expressions**, which represent the simplest entities the language is concerned with
- **means of combination**, by which compound elements are built from simpler ones, and
- **means of abstraction**, by which compound elements can be named and manipulated as units

In programming, we deal with two kinds of elements

- procedures
- data

But they are not so distinct. Informally, data is `stuff` that we want to manipulate, and procedures are descriptions of the rules for manipulating the data. Thus, any powerful programming language should be able to describe primitive data and primitive procedures and should have methods for combining and abstracting procedures and data.

### 1.1.1 Expressions

One kind of primitive expression you might type is a number.

Expressions representing numveras may be conbined with an expression representing a primitive procedure (such as + or *) to form a compound expression, which represents the application of the procedure to those numbers.

```text
compound expression: (+ 1 2)
result: 3
```

The leftmost element in the list is called the operator, and the other elements are called operands. The value of a combination is obrained by applying the procedure specified by the operator to the arguments that are the valus of the operands.

The convention of placing the operator to the left of the operands is known as `prefix notation`, advantage of which is

- it can accommodate procedures that may take an arbitrary number of arguments.

```text
compound expression: (+ 1 2 3 4)
result: 10
```

- it extends in a straightforward way to allow combinations to be nested, that is, to have combinations whose elements are themselves combinations

```text
compound expression: (+ (+ 1 2) (+ 3 4))
result: 10
```

### 1.1.2 Naming and the Environment

A critical aspect of a programming language is the means it provides for using names to refer to computational objects. We say that the name identifies a variable whose value is the object.

```text
(define size 2)
(define add (+ size, 1))
add
```

`Define` is our language's simplest means of abstraction.

### 1.1.3 Evaluating Combinations

In evaluationg combinations, the interpreter is itself following a procedure. To evaluate a combination, do the following

- 1 Evaluate the subexpressions of the combination.
- 2 Apply the procedure that is the value of the leftmost subexpression (the operator) to the arguments that are the values of the other subexpressions (the operands).

This simple rule illustrates some important points about processes in general. 

First, observe that the first step dictates that in order to accomplish the evaluation process for a combination we must first perform the evaluation process on each element of the combination. Thus, the evaluation rule is recursive in nature.

Next, observe that the repeated application of the first step brings us to the point where we need to evaluate, not combinations, but primitive expressions such as numerals, built-in operators, or other names. We take care of the primitive cases by stipulating that

- the values of numerals are the numbers that they name
- the values of built-in operators are the machine instruction sequences that carry out the corresponding operations
- the values of other names are the objects associated with those names in the environment

Notice that the evaluation rule given above does not handle definitions. For instance, evaluating (define x 3) does not apply define to two arguments. Such exceptions to the general evaluation rule are called `special forms`. Each special form has its own evaluation rule. The various kinds of expressions (each with its associated evaluation rule) constitute the syntax of the programming language.

### 1.1.4 Compound Procedures

## Defination

recursion equations

## Dictionary

- sorcerer: a person who claims or is believed to have magic powers; a wizard.
- arcane: understood by few; mysterious or secret.
- esoteric: intended for or likely to be understood by only a small number of people with a specialized knowledge or interest.
- apprentice: a person who is learning a trade from a skilled employer, having agreed to work for a fixed period at low wages.
- novice: a person new to or inexperienced in a field or situation.
- conjuring: make (something) appear unexpectedly or seemingly from nowhere as if by magic.
- glitch: a sudden, usually temporary malfunction or irregularity of equipment.
- unanticipated: not expected or predicted.
- catastrophic: involving or causing sudden great damage or suffering.
- collapse: an instance of a structure falling down or in.
- dam: a barrier constructed to hold back water and raise its level, the resulting reservoir being used in the generation of electricity or as a water supply.
- reservoir: a large natural or artificial lake used as a source of water supply.
- destruction: the action or process of causing so much damage to something that it no longer exists or cannot be repaired.
- quantitative: relating to, measuring, or measured by the quantity of something rather than its quality.
- qualitative: relating to, measuring, or measured by the quality of something rather than its quantity.
- notation: a series or system of written symbols used to represent numbers, amounts, or elements in something such as music or mathematics.
- formalism: a description of something in formal mathematical or logical terms.
- conceive: 1) become pregnant with (a child). 2) form or devise (a plan or idea) in the mind.
- inception: the establishment or starting point of an institution or activity.
- acronym: an abbreviation formed from the initial letters of other words and pronounced as a word (e.g., ASCII , NASA ).
- concerted: jointly arranged, planned, or carried out; coordinated.
- promulgate: promote or make widely known (an idea or cause).
- encompass: surround and have or hold within.
- medium: 1) about halfway between two extremes of size or another quality; average. 2) an agency or means of doing something.
- blur: a thing that cannot be seen or heard clearly.
- distinction：a difference or contrast between similar things or people.
- instruct: direct or command someone to do something, especially as an official order.
- compound: made up or consisting of several parts or elements, in particular.
- substitute: a person or thing acting or serving in place of another.
- reduction: the action or fact of making a specified thing smaller or less in amount, degree, or size.
- illegitimate: not authorized by the law; not in accordance with accepted standards or rules.
- realm: a kingdom.
- delimit: determine the limits or boundaries of.
- parenthesis/parenthese: a word, clause, or sentence inserted as an explanation or afterthought into a passage that is grammatically complete without it, in writing usually marked off by curved brackets, dashes, or commas.
- denote: be a sign of; indicate.
- leftmost: farthest to the left.
- operand: the quantity on which an operation is to be done.
- depart: leave, typically in order to start a journey.
- customary: according to the customs or usual practices associated with a particular society, place, or set of circumstances.
- accommodate: (of physical space, especially a building) provide lodging or sufficient space for.
- arbitrary: based on random choice or personal whim, rather than any reason or system.
- ambiguity: uncertainty or inexactness of meaning in language.
- align: place or arrange (things) in a straight line.
- indentation: 1) the action of indenting or the state of being indented. 2) a deep recess or notch on the edge or surface of something.
- indeed: used to emphasize a statement or response confirming something already suggested.
- succinct: (especially of something written or spoken) briefly and clearly expressed.
- percolate: (of a liquid or gas) filter gradually through a porous surface or substance.
- stipulate: demand or specify (a requirement), typically as part of a bargain or agreement.
